What is Git?
Free and open source version control system 
What is a Version control system?
A system that keeps track of files or projects 
It allows you to revert selected files to a previous state, revert the entrie project to a previous statek compare chagnes over time, see who last modified somehting os that we can know what might be causing a problem, or what is th eissue, who made it, and when with the details .

There are two types of VCS
1. Centralized 
2. Distributed (preferred)

Why git?
Free 
Open source
Scalable
Superfast
Cheap branching and merging 

What is GitHub
GitHub is a web-based hosting service for git repositories. 
You can use git without Github, but you cannot use GitHub without Git.


Local repositories
Every VCS tool provides a private workplace as a working copy. Developers make changes in their private workplace and after commit, these changes become a part of the repository. Git takes it one step further by providing them a private copy of the whole repository. Users can perform many operations with this repository such as add file, remove file, rename file, move file, commit changes and many more. 

WOrking directory and staging area or index: An intermediate area where commits can be formatted and reviewed before completing the commit. 

push : sned a change to another repository(may require perimission)

pull: grab a change from a repository

Blobs : Blob stands for Binary Large Object. Each version of a file is represented by a blob. A blob holds the file data but doesn't contain any metadata about the file. It is a binary file, and in Git database, it is named a SHA1 hash of that file. In Git, files are not addressed by names. Everything is content-addressed.

Trees: Tree is an object, which represents directory. It holds blobs as well as other sub-directory. A tree is a binary file that stores references to blobs and trees which are also named as SHA1 hash of the tree object 

Commits 
Commit holds the current state of the repository. A commit is also named by SHA1 hash. 
Commit object = a node of the linked list. 
Every commit object has a pointer to the parent commit object
From a given commit, you can traverse back by looking at the parent pointer to view the history of the commit.
If a commit has multiple parent commits, then that particular commit has been created by merging two branches. 


Git commands 
Clone: Bring a repository hosted somewhere like GitHub into a folder or your local machine 
Add: Track your files and changes in Git
Commit : Save your files in git 
Push : Upload your commits to git repo, like GitHub
Pull: Download changes from a remote repository to your local repository.




















